---
group: getting-started
order: 3
name: Optimization
title: Tailwind CSS Optimization
meta:
    description: Learn how to optimize for production by using Purge CSS and eliminate duplicated rules using PostCSS.
javascript: none
---

# Tailwind CSS Optimization

<p class="mt-2 text-xl text-muted-foreground">Learn how to optimize for production by using Purge CSS and eliminate duplicated rules using PostCSS.</p>

Combining UIkit with Tailwind CSS can result in a significant number of duplicated rules. However, tools like Purge CSS can automatically strip out these duplicates, resulting in a leaner final CSS file.

## Remove unused CSS

To begin, specify the types of files on your `tailwind.config.js` that should be searched for when purging CSS:

```javascript
/** @type {import('tailwindcss').Config} */
export default {
  content: [
    './src/**/*.html',
    './src/**/*.vue',
    './src/**/*.jsx',
  ],
};
```

This configuration tells Purge CSS to search for CSS classes used in HTML, Vue, and JSX files within the `src` directory. Unused classes will be removed during the build process, resulting in a more optimized CSS output.

## Picking components

Selecting only the components you need can significantly reduce the number of CSS classes generated by Tailwind CSS. Additionally, you can optimize further by setting the media option to `false`, which prevents all media queries from being included in the final CSS output.

```javascript
/** @type {import('tailwindcss').Config} */
export default {
  plugins: [
    ui({
        components: {
            accordion: {
                hooks: {}
            },
            form: {
                hooks: {},
                media: false
            },
        }
    }),
  ],
};
```

## Fixing media queries

When combining two different frameworks like UIkit and Tailwind CSS, clashes can occur, especially with media queries. To resolve conflicts and ensure proper sorting of media queries, you can use the `postcss-sort-media-queries` plugin.

First, install the plugin:

```sh
npm install postcss-sort-media-queries
```

Then, update your `postcss.config.cjs` file to include the plugin:

```javascript
module.exports = {
  plugins: [
    require("tailwindcss"),
    require("postcss-sort-media-queries")(),
  ],
};
```
By default, all components in Franken UI have their media option set to `false`, and it's recommended to use Tailwind CSS media queries instead. However, the `media` option is provided for compatibility purposes, allowing you to use UIkit's media queries if necessary.

## Removing duplicated rules

Finally, to further optimize your CSS bundle and reduce file size, you can use the `postcss-combine-duplicated-selectors` plugin to remove duplicated rules. This plugin will merge selectors that have the same properties, helping to streamline your CSS output.


```sh
npm install postcss-combine-duplicated-selectors
```

Then, update your PostCSS configuration to include the plugin:

```javascript
module.exports = {
  plugins: [
    require("tailwindcss"),
    require("postcss-sort-media-queries")(),
    require("postcss-combine-duplicated-selectors")({
      removeDuplicatedProperties: true,
    }),
  ],
};
```
With this setup, your build process will remove unused CSS classes and duplicated rules, resulting in a smaller and more efficient CSS file.